{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Nikon 35mm:\
A very versatile and fast (f/2) wide-angle lens which I 	use for landscape shots, but also for everything where you can get close.\
\
Nikon 50 mm:\
My previous "working lens", with f/1.8 the fastest one I have, the 50mm focal length creates a picture according to your eye-sight.\
\
Tamron 28 - 75 mm:\
My workhorse, it allows me to shoot almost everything that comes across a camera lens. Powerful enough to create sharp pictures, also in low-light conditions, it is also a lens that allows you to shoot portraits.\
\
Tamron 70 - 300 mm:\
 A telephoto zoom lens that I use for all work up to 200 or 300 meters. It is surprisingly sharp for a zoom of that size and price and it was the lens that  I used for the horse head in the gallery.\
\
Tamron 150 - 600:\
The "big gun" for the extreme things. Nicknamed "Monster" it weighs 2 kilos and guarantees a sore neck when you carry the camera with it around your neck for only a few minutes. Only a shoulder strap can help there, or an assistant...\
\
Samyang 24 PC:\
A tilt-shift lens especially for architecture and for all other shots where you want or nee to change the perspective. This lens can be twisted, so it is no autofocus lens.\
\
Shoulder strap:\
It can easily carry a few kilos (camera and the 150 - 600 are together around 3 kilos, incl. battery grip). As the strap sits on your shoulder and then goes across your chest, it spreads the weight evenly.\
\
Monopod:\
A "one-legged" tripod, mainly used to provide more stability and in light conditions where your need some support. It also makes hiking more comfortable.\
\
Tripod:\
The only way to get shots without camera shake (with an additional remote control). I use it for everthing that requires a long time, e.g. landscapes, low-light, night, etc.\
\
}